Custom plugin documentation (#1222)
Redocly/redocly-cli: docs/custom-plugins/extended-types.md

# Type extensions in plugins

Redocly CLI in its core has a type tree which defines the structure of the API definition.

> Redocly CLI then uses it to do type-aware traversal of OpenAPI Document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redocly CLI then uses it to do a type-aware traversal of an OpenAPI definition.
```

> Redocly CLI then uses it to do a type-aware traversal of an OpenAPI definition.

Reviewer 2: question: Is the plan to update this from saying "OpenAPI" once this merges? https://github.com/Redocly/redocly-cli/pull/1127

Author: I think we'll need to update a few things, yes! I intentionally made things more vague in a few places but at this time, I think the type extension feature is really only useful for OpenAPI.

The type tree is built from top level `Types` which can link to child types. For example, here is a [visual reference to the OpenAPI types structure](../../openapi-visual-reference/openapi-node-types.md). You can also check [the code itself](https://github.com/Redocly/redocly-cli/tree/main/packages/core/src/types) for information about specific versions of OpenAPI and other supported document types.

The type tree can be extended by exporting the `typeExtension` function from a custom plugin.

# Type extension example

Consider an OpenAPI that uses an (imaginary) specification extension `x-metadata` which must contain information about the lifecycle state of the API, and which team owns the API. A snippet of the OpenAPI to show the example clearly:

```yaml
openapi: 3.1.0
info:
  title: Food Empire API
  version: 0.5.1
  x-metadata:
    lifecycle: production
    owner-team: Engineering/Integrations
```

Define the type extension for the new `x-metadata` section, in this example, we make the `lifecycle` field required.

```js
const XMetaData = {
  properties: {

>     lifecycle: { type: 'string'},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    lifecycle: { type: 'string', enum: ['development', 'staging', 'production']},
```
suggestion: make it a little more than a basic string

    'owner-team': { type: 'string'},
  },
  required: ['lifecycle']
};
```

> Note the quotes around the `owner-team` key since it contains a hyphen `-`. These fields are strings but you can also define other datastructures if you need to represent something more complex. The [built-in type definitions](https://github.com/Redocly/redocly-cli/tree/main/packages/core/src) are a good place to look for examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the quotes around the `owner-team` key since it contains a hyphen `-`. These fields are strings but you can also define other data structures if you need to represent something more complex. The [built-in type definitions](https://github.com/Redocly/redocly-cli/tree/main/packages/core/src) are a good place to look for examples.
```
